On September 18, the list of people who would be boarding on the trains included my name and my friend, Muhammad Syed's name. 
On the nineteenth of September, after a lot of effort, 
we got a truck to take us to the Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station and bought a ticket. 
After much difficulty, we got a small space in a cabin that did not have any doors or windows. 
I had my friend with me, who had his family with him as well as another family. 
We were searched many times, and if anyone had any weaponry, the weaponry was taken from them. 
The train had military officials that were there to protect the Hindu government officials, 
under the command of the Army officer, and the government officials left at 10:15 in the morning. 
As the train went through the city, I saw the Jammeh Masjid, the Red Fort with sad parting eyes. 
As we were essentially being exiled out of their city, I could hear the laughter of the Sikhs and Hindus. 
My friend and I prayed that we are allowed to come back someday as victors. 
As the train approached the Delhi station, it slowed down and I could see the armed Sikhs around,
and hear gunfire coming from the direction of the City. 
Thankfully, the train did not stop and kept going. 
Whenever it did stop, the train took more passengers,
and you could see the Muslims very emotional as they were leaving for Pakistan, 
they were crying and didn't know if they could.
At one point, a guerilla group tried to attack the train, 
but the Sikh commander talked to them and tried to hold them off, 
so after about an hour, we could finally leave that station. 
However, later some night, there was an attack at a different station, and there was a lot of firing. 
The Commander of the Army fought back and got injured himself. 
On the morning of the twentieth of September, the train came to Ludhiana station, 
I saw the carts being filled with holes and a lot of injured and dead people. 
A hundred people might have been martyred, and a lot of women and children went missing, 
while maybe 40-50 people survived, including me. 
I prayed through the night and thanked God, that I survived. 
The train left at 11 AM and passed Amritsar, and finally came to Wagah, the border at Lahore in the evening, 
around the Maghrib prayer time. I can't describe the feeling when we reached there. 
At that moment, I did not feel the pain of not being with my family or any regret of being looted,
or coming to this country without anything, 
since when I stepped into the land of Pakistan, the peace that came within cannot be described in words. 
